📜Create tutorials (#4)
KinsonDigital/VelaptorDocs: docs/tutorials/guides/hello-velaptor.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Hello Velaptor

> This guide will show you the basics of creating a simple Velaptor **Hello World** application.

Reviewer: Grammar
```suggestion
This guide will show you the basics of creating a simple "**Hello World**" application using Velaptor.
```

Reviewer: @CalvinWilkinson I see you're not a fan of the quotes.  I resolved anyway.

:::note Project Templates
There are plans in the future to create a project template for Visual Studio and JetBrains Rider users

> to easily create a minimal Velaptor application.

Reviewer: grammar
```suggestion
to easily create a basic Velaptor application.
```

To see a complete working project of this example, look at the [HelloVelaptor](https://github.com/KinsonDigital/VelaptorTutorials/tree/master/HelloVelaptor) project in the [VelaptorTutorials](https://github.com/KinsonDigital/VelaptorTutorials) repository.
:::

First things first.  You have to create a project with the preferred IDE!!

### <span class="color-step">Step 1: Create the application</span>

Create a new console application using dotnet _**v7.0**_

### <span class="color-step">Step 2: Add Velaptor to the project</span>

Add the Velaptor [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/KinsonDigital.Velaptor) to the project.
   - Make sure to click the preview check box in your IDE of choice.

>     <Tabs>

Reviewer: Grammar
```suggestion
Add the Velaptor [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/KinsonDigital.Velaptor) to the project.
   - Make sure to click the preview check box in your IDE of choice. Since Velaptor is currently only in preview, clicking the checkbox will allow you to see the NuGet package.
    <Tabs>
```

       <TabItem value="vs" label="Visual Studio" default>
            <img src={require('@site/static/img/tutorials/guides/hello-velaptor/nuget-vs.jpg').default} alt="Example banner"/>
        </TabItem>
        <TabItem value="banana" label="JetBrains Rider">
            <img src={require('@site/static/img/tutorials/guides/hello-velaptor/nuget-rider.jpg').default} alt="Example banner"/>
        </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

   :::info Important
   Velaptor is currently in preview. This is required to see the NuGet package.
   :::

> 

Reviewer: Delete this section (lines 40-43).  It was combined above on line 30.

### <span class="color-step">Step 3: Create the game class</span>

Create a new class file named `Game`.  This will be necessary to take advantage of the game-related methods of Velaptor.  These methods

> are used for things such as loading and unloading content, updating your game objects and rendering graphics to the screen.

Reviewer: Grammar (add comma)
```suggestion
are used for things such as loading and unloading content, updating your game objects, and rendering graphics to the screen.
```

```csharp
namespace HelloVelaptor;

public class Game : Window
{
}
```

### <span class="color-step">Step 4: Loading content</span>

#### <span class="color-sub-step">Step 4.1</span>
Once the game class file has been created, we need a way to load content.  We can load sounds, textures, fonts, atlas textures and atlas data.
But we only need to load a single font for this simple hello Velaptor application.  Create a method override of the `Window.Load()` method

> in the `Game` class as shown below.

Reviewer: Sentence structure
```suggestion
Once the game class file has been created, we need a way to load content.  We can load sounds, textures, fonts, atlas textures and atlas data but we only need to load a single font for this basic **Hello Velaptor** application.  Create a method override of the `Window.Load()` method
in the `Game` class as shown below:
```

    IRenderer.End(); // This must be called to end the rendering process 👈🏼

    base.OnDraw(frameTime);
}
```

:::note
Some game engines and frameworks use the top left corner of an object when rendering at a particular position.  Velaptor does not work like this.
When rendering text, the position of the text is relative to the center of the entire text or texture content.

What this means is if you render the text at position _**(0,0)**_, you would only be able to see the bottom right quadrant of the text because
the other 3 quadrants would be rendered off-screen!!  Make sure to take this into account when it comes to text and object render positioning.
<img style={{width: '75%'}} src={require('@site/static/img/tutorials/guides/hello-velaptor/text-origin.png').default} alt="Example banner"/>
:::

#### <span class="color-sub-step">Step 5.6</span>

Now the best part!! Let's see the fruits of your labor and run the application.
You should see the result below!! 🥳
<img style={{width: '75%'}} src={require('@site/static/img/tutorials/guides/hello-velaptor/hello-velaptor-window.jpg').default} alt="Example banner"/>

### <span class="color-step">Step 6: Something to update</span>

> A game cannot be a game without adding interactivity and updating something to make things happen.  Otherwise, you are just looking at a still picture!

Reviewer: What is an example of the "something"? Can it be deleted?
```suggestion
A game cannot be a game without adding interactivity and updating something to make things happen.  Otherwise, you are just looking at a still picture!
```

Author: The _**something**_ all depends on what the person is creating.  There is no way for me to know that.
I can change the word _**something**_ to **the game**.  Like below.

```suggestion
A game cannot be a game without adding interactivity and updating the game to make things happen.  Otherwise, you are just looking at a still picture!
```

Reviewer: I see what you're saying.  I feel like you can delete that part of the sentence, then.  End the first sentence with interactivity and the next sentence refers to looking at a still picture w/out the interactivity.  Thoughts?

Author: Like this?

```suggestion
A game cannot be a game without updating the game to make things happen.  Otherwise, you are just looking at a still picture with no interactivity!
```

Reviewer: How about replacing "the game" with it?  I don't like that whole section, but it is what it is.
